README.md, before:

# The Autonomous Engineer

An experiment to see how well a LLM-powered assistant is able to perform tasks of a software engineer:

1. **Design Software:** Develop plans for creating software applications and systems, specifying which programming languages, algorithms, and data structures to use.
2. **Write Code:** Write and implement efficient code in various computer languages, capable of working individually or as part of a team, depending on the project's size and complexity.
3. **Test Software:** Test the software for bugs, issues, and usability, performing both automated and manual testing.
4. **Debug:** After testing, identify and fix issues found during testing.
5. **Maintain Software:** After the software is released, update it, improve its performance, and make any necessary changes.
6. **Document:** Write documentation for the software code, explaining how the software works. This documentation is often used for user manuals and guides.
7. **Problem-Solve:** Understand complex systems and solve problems on a day-to-day basis.
8. **Collaborate:** Work with other professionals like business analysts, project managers, and testers, to achieve a common goal.
9. **Understand User Needs:** Understand the requirements of the end-user, and design software that meets these needs.

## Overview

This repository contains:

* `chatbot` - Rasa-boilerplate and configuration for the assistant's chat ability
* `abilities` - Actuators/tools that the assistant needs to interact with its environment
* `ui` - A hybrid traditional ui & chat interface with which the human can interact with and pair program with the assistant

This repository will contain:

* `prompts` - A set of prompts and chains used with LLMs to perform the above tasks
* `docs` - Instructions on how to configure, extend and monitor the assistant

The assistant runs locally and interacts with existing engineering tooling.

## Getting started

_Note:_ The assistant is being developed using macOS. It may work on other Linux/Unix systems, but it has not been tested.

### Prerequisites

Make sure these are installed and available in your `$PATH`:

* Python 3.9
* [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)
* [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki/Installing)
* [ttyd](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/)

Install dependencies:

```shell
poetry install
```

## Launching the assistant

```shell
npx mprocs
```

http://localhost:3000 opens up with a UI for pair programming with the assistant.

Commit message:

Trying out Rasa NLU + Minor tweaks (#3)
Trying out Rasa NLU here (learning: messy to work with). It is now
possible to split the pane vertically or horizontally via chat commands.
The PR also modifies the UI port to 1337, and incorporates minor tweaks
along with documentation enhancements.

README.md, after:

# The Autonomous Engineer

An experiment to see how well a LLM-powered assistant is able to perform tasks of a software engineer:

1. **Design Software:** Develop plans for creating software applications and systems, specifying which programming languages, algorithms, and data structures to use.
2. **Write Code:** Write and implement efficient code in various computer languages, capable of working individually or as part of a team, depending on the project's size and complexity.
3. **Test Software:** Test the software for bugs, issues, and usability, performing both automated and manual testing.
4. **Debug:** After testing, identify and fix issues found during testing.
5. **Maintain Software:** After the software is released, update it, improve its performance, and make any necessary changes.
6. **Document:** Write documentation for the software code, explaining how the software works. This documentation is often used for user manuals and guides.
7. **Problem-Solve:** Understand complex systems and solve problems on a day-to-day basis.
8. **Collaborate:** Work with other professionals like business analysts, project managers, and testers, to achieve a common goal.
9. **Understand User Needs:** Understand the requirements of the end-user, and design software that meets these needs.

## Overview

This repository contains:

* `chatbot` - Rasa-boilerplate and configuration for the assistant's chat ability
* `abilities` - Actuators/tools that the assistant needs to interact with its environment
* `ui` - A hybrid traditional ui & chat interface with which the human can interact with and pair program with the assistant

This repository will contain:

* `prompts` - A set of prompts and chains used with LLMs to perform the above tasks
* `docs` - Instructions on how to configure, extend and monitor the assistant

The assistant runs locally and interacts with existing engineering tooling.

## Getting started

_Note:_ The assistant is being developed using macOS. It may work on other Linux/Unix systems, but it has not been tested.

### Prerequisites

Make sure these are installed and available in your `$PATH`:

* Python 3.9
* [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)
* [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki/Installing)
* [ttyd](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/)

Install dependencies:

```shell
poetry install
```

## Launching the assistant

```shell
npx mprocs
```

http://localhost:1337 opens up with a UI for pair programming with the assistant (a chat interface and a terminal that both you and the assistant have access to).

To use iTerm2 instead of the browser-based terminal, run:

```shell
tmux -CC attach -t autonomous-engineer
```

Source: https://iterm2.com/documentation-tmux-integration.html
